---
title: '[Ongoing Updates] iOS Development Basics - To Do List'
date: 2024-03-14
permalink: /posts/2024/03/ios_todolist/
tags:
  - iOS development

---

# Basic To Do List Development for iOS

## Step 1. Project Setup

### Firebase Setup

Firebase is a platform developed by Google for creating mobile and web applications. It provides a variety of tools and services that help developers build high-quality apps quickly and easily. In iOS development, Firebase can be used for several purposes, such as authentication, real-time database, cloud storage, analytics, and push notifications. To use Firebase in an iOS project, developers typically start by adding the Firebase SDK to their app using CocoaPods or Swift Package Manager. They then configure the Firebase project in the Firebase console and initialize Firebase in the app's code. From there, developers can integrate the various Firebase services into their app by following the Firebase documentation and using the provided APIs.

We can simplily go to [this website](https://console.firebase.google.com/u/0/) to add our iOS project, and link it to local projects. Drag the downloaded GoogleService-info file into the local project workspace for configuration.

### Package Setup
In this project, we incorporate Firebase into our workspace by utilizing the URL provided on the Firebase website to add the necessary package. Specifically, we leverage Firebase for its authentication capabilities and the corresponding data storage services. This integration allows us to securely manage user authentication and efficiently store and retrieve data in our application, enhancing its overall functionality and user experience.


### Folder Setup

Four folders are needed for a basic To Do List project.

* Models
* ViewModels: In this folder, we implement multiple view model classes to further implement necessary functions.
* Views: In this folder, several SwiftUI files are implemented for different pages. For instance, we will implement a page for user log in systems. The user interface will be implemented in this folder.
* Other


## Step 2. Creating and Implementing Views

View files in SwiftUI are essentially the blueprints for the user interface (UI) that users will interact with in applications. For instance, consider a webpage designed for account creation. This page typically features several elements such as icons, text fields for entering information, and buttons for submitting data. In SwiftUI, the view files contain all the necessary implementations for these visual components. They define the layout, appearance, and behavior of each UI element, ensuring that users have a seamless and intuitive experience when interacting with the application.

Here are a few necessary view files:
* Main view
* Header view
* Profile view
* To do list view
* List item view
* New item view
* Log in view
* Register view

In addition to the primary view files, our project also utilizes supplementary view files to enhance the user interface. These additional view files serve as examples and templates, demonstrating various ways to improve the aesthetics and usability of the application. By incorporating these samples, we aim to create a more visually appealing and user-friendly interface for our users.